The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Lady and Her Horse, by T. A. Jenkins

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The Lady and Her Horse
       Being Hints Selected from Various Sources and Compiled
       into a System of Equitation

Author: T. A. Jenkins

Release Date: September 16, 2011 [EBook #37445]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LADY AND HER HORSE ***




Produced by Julia Miller and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)





Transcriber's Note

Obvious typographical errors have been corrected. A list of corrections
is found at the end of the text. Inconsistencies in spelling and
hyphenation have been maintained. A list of inconsistently spelled and
hyphenated words is found at the end of the text.




  THE
  LADY AND HER HORSE,
  BEING HINTS SELECTED
  FROM VARIOUS SOURCES
  AND COMPILED INTO A SYSTEM
  OF
  EQUITATION.


  BY
  MAJOR T. A. JENKINS.


  MADRAS:
  PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY PHAROAH AND CO.
  ATHENÆUM PRESS, MOUNT ROAD.
  1857.




CONTENTS.


                       _Page._

  Introductory Address       1

  Preparatory Remarks        2

  Directions for Mounting    5

  The Seat and Balance       7

  Holding the Reins         10

  Aids and Indications      11

  Guiding                   16

  Animations                22

  Soothing                  21

  Corrections               25

  Vices                     26

  Paces of the Horse        33

  Leaping                   39

  Road Riding               41

  Dismounting               46

  Concluding Remarks        48




EQUITATION.


INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS.

            "What delight
    To back the flying Steed, that challenges
    The wind for speed! Seems native more of Air,
    Than Earth! Whose burden only lends him fire!
    Whose soul is in his task, turns labour into sport
    And makes your pastime his!"

    '_Love Chase._'

"The chief point in Horsemanship", Colonel GREENWOOD observes in his
"Hints on Horsemanship" "is to get your horse to be of your party; and
not only to obey, but to obey willingly,"--"Good riding as a whole is
indeed no trifle, and is worth acquiring by those whose pleasure or
business it is to ride, because it is soon, and easily acquired, and
when acquired it becomes habitual, and is as easy, nay much more so; and
infinitely more safe, than bad riding. Good riding is an affair of
skill, but bad riding is an affair of courage." Yet, in no other art,
are there so many self-thought Amateurs. Many ladies have a decided
objection to going through the ordeal of a riding school; others have no
opportunity of obtaining instructions, and the generality consider, that
they are in possession of all that can be acquired upon the subject,
when they have discovered a mode of retaining the seat, and guiding the
horse; but to those who wish to sit a horse through all his paces,
firmly, yet gracefully, to have the animal entirely under command, and
as if imbued with one intelligence, to unite boldness, with modesty, and
employ energy, without losing delicacy, these hints are addressed.


PREPARATORY REMARKS.

_A lady's riding dress_, should be neat, and compact, at the same time
she should carefully avoid the slightest approach to a _mannish_
appearance; she may study the becoming, provided there be nothing in her
whole toilette likely to become disarranged or loosened by wind, or
violent exercise. The hair should be so arranged that it cannot be blown
about the eyes, and the hat should be perfectly secured on the head. So
much for outward appearance, in other respects comfort alone should be
studied.

_The whip_, should be light, and stiff. When too pliable, a lady
frequently touches her horse with it unintentionally, thereby teasing
and exciting him, and moreover such a whip is useless as an "aid."

_The lady's bridle_, should be, what is called a double bitted bridle,
consisting of a bit with a curb-chain; and a snaffle, two separate
head-stalls, united by one brow-band, each, with a separate rein.

The _curb-bit_ is a very powerful implement, the best for all purposes
is a light one; in choosing a bit for a horse, the distance between the
cheeks, should accord with the width of the horse's mouth; they should
be of an average length, and the mouth-piece should be only sufficiently
arched, to admit of the horse's tongue passing freely underneath it. The
bit should be placed in the horse's mouth, so that the mouth-piece be
one inch above the lower tusk, the curb chain should be laid flat, and
smooth under the jaw, and so loose, as to allow a finger to pass freely
inside of it.

The _snaffle_ acts as an auxiliary to the curb-bit, and is placed above
it in the horse's mouth, it should bear slightly upon the corners of the
mouth, but not so as to wrinkle the cheeks.

For a person who has not a light hand, the curb-bit may, with advantage,
be placed a little higher in the horse's mouth; and when the mouth may
be wanting in delicacy, it may be lowered a little, but it should never
touch the tusk, or it will fret the horse.

The _reins_ should be soft, flexible, and of a good quality, the rein
which is attached to the curb-bit is usually fastened in the centre by a
sewing, while that attached to the snaffle may be known, by its having a
small buckle in the centre.

_Throat-strap_ should not be buckled too tightly, but only sufficiently
so, to prevent the headstalls of the bridle, from getting out of place.

_Martingales_, though frequently used, are very seldom necessary if the
horse has been educated, and taught to carry his head properly, and to
be _obedient to the bit_; but if a horse carries his head high, or be
unsteady and fretful, then a light running martingale will be found of
service; it must however be attached to the snaffle reins, and never to
the curb-bit reins.

The _saddle_ should be roomy, but not too large, it should in short, be
made to fit the person. The third crutch is indispensable, as it renders
the seat so much more secure, and if properly fitted, it never
incommodes the rider. The saddle should be placed on the horse's back,
so as not in the least to interfere with the action of the horse's
shoulder, and care must be taken that the pad, or stuffing, only rests
on the horse's ribs, leaving in the centre a thorough channel, over the
spine.

_The lady's horse_ should be good tempered, free and willing, for a
sluggish horse is the most unpleasant of any to a lady; but he must not
be restless, nor impatient in company: he should be steady, and safe on
the roads, smooth in all his paces; and with these natural
qualifications which are essential, he must be properly broken, and
taught to go collectedly in all his paces; and particularly to lead off
in a canter with the right leg; to arch his neck on the reins being
felt, to be obedient, and light in hand; it is further desirable that
the horse should possess elegance of figure, power, and action, with
speed in all his paces. However, much will depend upon the person, for
whom he is intended, as a timid rider would be alarmed by the
sprightliness of a free going horse, which might perfectly suit a lady
with a light hand, and a steady seat. A young horse is naturally
unsteady, the beau ideal of a lady's horse, is an officer's charger,
about ten years old, as he still possesses life and spirit, without the
freshness of a colt.


DIRECTIONS FOR MOUNTING.

The lady holding the falling folds of her habit in both hands, walks up
to the horse's head, or side; but never behind him, lest he should kick
at her.

There should be two persons in attendance, the groom should stand before
the horse's head, with a hand on each side of the bridle, close to his
mouth, to keep him steady; the gentleman takes the reins in his left
hand, separating them with his forefingers, the lady receives them in
her right hand, in like manner, and lets them glide gently and evenly
through her fingers, until her hand reaches the near crutch, which she
takes hold of; and having passed the whip over the saddle, she holds it
also in her right hand. Standing close to the near side of the saddle,
and facing the gentleman who has taken a lock of the mane in his left
hand, the lady places her left foot, which he stoops to receive, full in
his right hand, lets the habit fall from her left hand, which she places
upon his right shoulder, leaning thereon, and assisted by her hold on
the crutch, she springs up from her right instep, as uprightly as
possible, having been careful not to place her left foot too far
forward, but keeping it directly under her, she straightens her left
knee and assumes an upright position; the gentleman, when he feels her
spring, accelerates the movement, by simultaneously lifting his hand
high enough, to place the lady on the saddle, she steadying herself, by
the hold she has with her right hand, seats herself, and places her
right leg between the two outward pommels, the gentleman places her foot
in the stirrup, and she takes the reins in her left hand. To adjust the
habit, the lady raises herself by placing her right hand on the off
pommel and standing in her stirrup, the gentleman shakes the back part
of the skirt into its place, she re-seats herself, and raising her right
knee to free the habit, the gentleman assists to adjust the front part
of the skirt by gently drawing it forward.


THE SEAT AND BALANCE.

A lady seldom appears to greater advantage than when mounted on a fine
horse, that is, if her deportment be graceful; and her position
corresponds with his paces and attitudes; but the reverse is the case,
if, instead of acting with, and influencing the movements of, the horse,
she appears to be tossed to and fro, and overcome by them. She should
rise, and descend, advance, and stop with, and not after the animal.
From this harmony of motion results ease, elegance, and a good effect.
The lady should sit in such a position, that the weight of her body may
rest on the centre of the saddle, and so far back, as just to admit of
her right leg passing easily round the crutch, for if the knee be too
far forward, the seat will be very insecure; the right foot should be
flat to the saddle, the toe turned downwards, that it may not be seen
through the habit, when a firmer seat is required, the heel should be
depressed, as doing so, will tend to brace the muscles of the leg, and
give a firmer hold on the crutch.

The _left leg_ and knee must be in close contact with the saddle, from
the knee the leg should fall in a natural position, the foot should be
parallel to the horse's side, and close to it, the heel slightly
depressed. The stirrup leather should be adjusted accordingly, as it is
only of use, to support the foot in its proper position, too long a
stirrup throws the rider on one side, and raises the right hip, too
short a stirrup again, forces the knee outwards, and throws the seat too
much to the right, giving to the rider a distorted appearance. A small
strap fastened to the surcingle about two inches above the stirrup,
passing round the stirrup leather, with a play of about three inches,
adds greatly to the security of the seat, as it prevents the leg from
flying out from the saddle.

The _arms_ should hang straight down from the shoulder, nearly close to
the sides, but not stiffly, the elbows bent, and the hands level with
the elbows, the right arm and hand, when not occupied with the reins,
may be allowed to hang straight from the shoulder. The whip should be
held with the lash downwards, between the two fingers and thumb. The
whip may also be carried in the manner adopted by gentlemen; but care
should be taken that its point does not tickle, or irritate the horse.

_The proper position of the bridle hand_, is immediately opposite to the
centre of the waist, and about three or four inches from it, the wrist
should be slightly rounded, the back of the hand to the front, the
knuckles opposite to the horse's ears, the thumb uppermost, and pressed
over the third joint of the finger. The hand should not be allowed to
move across the body, all the movements being made by the wrist. The arm
from the shoulder to the waist, must be one continued spring, impulsive
to the motion of the horse's head, moving backwards and forwards as he
moves, for if it be not so, the horse's mouth will be spoiled by the
dead pull upon it.

The _body_ must always be in a situation, as well to preserve the
balance, as to maintain the seat. The shoulders should be thrown back,
so as to open the chest as much as possible. The rider should look in
the direction, and lean to the side the horse is turning to, which is in
fact the _necessary balance_.


HOLDING THE REINS.

There are various ways of holding the reins, depending upon fancy, and
circumstances; such as the fineness of a horse's mouth, and the delicacy
of the rider's hand.

_Holding a single rein._--The rein is taken in the centre where the
joining is, between the fore-finger and thumb of the right hand, and
drawn towards the body, the left hand is placed over the reins, and the
little finger is inserted between them; the hand is then closed, and the
reins are drawn through the fingers, by the right hand, until a proper
feeling is obtained upon the horse's mouth; the loop end of the rein is
allowed to drop over the fore-finger, and the thumb is placed upon the
rein, to prevent its slipping.

_Holding a double rein._--The curb rein being held as directed, the loop
of the snaffle rein is placed over the curb rein in the palm of the left
hand, or, to have a double bearing upon the horse's mouth, the rein may
be drawn, till the required tension is obtained, the left rein lying
over the curb rein in the palm of the hand, the right snaffle rein,
passing between the second and third fingers. In dividing the reins with
the little finger, the right rein, which passes over that finger, is
always a little longer than the other, and requires to be shortened, if
this be not attended to, the horse will be ridden chiefly upon the left
rein, his head will be bent to the left, and he will not be looking the
way he is going.

_Holding the Curl and snaffle reins separated._--The curb being held as
directed in the first described method, the snaffle rein is taken in the
same manner, in the right hand, below the left; the principal bearing is
brought upon this rein, which keeps the horse's head steady, while with
the left hand the horse's mouth is kept alive, by a play on the bit,
giving and taking, but, at the same time retaining a light bearing upon
the horse's mouth. This is an excellent method for holding the reins
with a fiery, high actioned horse, not up to hand.

_Adjusting the reins._--The rider should take hold of the loop end of
the rein, and draw it through her hand until the proper bearing and
tension has been obtained.


AIDS AND INDICATIONS.

All those motions of the body, the hand, the leg, and the whip, which
either indicate the rider's wishes, or in some degree assist the horse
to perform them, are, in the art of riding denominated 'aids;' in their
execution, a perfect combination, and the greatest uniformity,
exactness, and delicacy are required.

_The indications of the hand_ are of two sorts, guiding and retaining,
those of the leg and whip, are also of two sorts, guiding and urging.
The aids serve to put the horse in movement, to direct, and to stop him;
they should not only decide the pace which the horse is to take, but
also signify to him, the rate at which each pace is to be executed, and
also determine his carriage during the performance of it. The power of
these aids, and the degree of severity to be used, must be governed by
circumstances, and the sensibility of the horse.

_The hand_, being placed holding the reins, as previously described, and
the reins being drawn to that determined length, that the bracing of the
muscles of the hand would rein the horse back, and the easing of them
permit him to advance freely; if the hand be held steady, as the horse
advances in a trot, the fingers will feel by the tightening and
loosening of the reins, a slight sensation or tug, occasioned by the
measure or cadence of every step, this sensation or tug, which is
reciprocally felt in the horse's mouth, by means of the correspondence
between the hand and the mouth, is called the appui; and while this
appui is preserved, the horse is in perfect obedience to the rider, the
hand directing him with the greatest ease, so that the horse seems to
work by the will of the rider, rather than by the compulsion of the
hand.

When a horse is ridden on a snaffle, he only feels the direct pull more
or less of the rider's hand, with a curb-bit in his mouth the effect is
different, and more powerful, on account of the lever which tightens the
curb-chain on the horse's jaw. A curb in a rough and uneven hand,
becomes an instrument of extreme torture; the hand should always be
firm, but delicate, the horse's mouth should never be surprised, by any
sudden transition of the bearing from tight to slack, or from slack to
tight, every thing in horsemanship should be effected by degrees.

The rider should never rest her hand upon the pommel, as by doing so,
she at once destroys the sympathy which ought to exist between the hand
and the horse's mouth.

_Fineness of mouth_, means a mouth that is perfectly trained, and
responds to the determined action of a sensitive hand. The acquirement
of the bearing upon the horse's mouth, the turning the horse upon the
proper rein, the power of collecting the horse, and retaining him on his
proper balance, smoothness of indications, in the shortening of the
reins, and the working together of the hand, leg, and whip, are the
unseen, and unappreciated foundation, upon which good riding stands;
these, and not strength, nor violence commands the animal, with these,
the horse will rely on the hand, comply to it, and without force on the
rider's part, he will bend to the hand in every articulation. Without
these, however unintentional on the rider's part, she will be
perpetually subjecting him to the severest torture, to defend himself
against which, he will resist the hand, poke his nose, stiffen his neck,
and every other part of his body; for the horse can endure no greater
torture, than that resulting from an uneven hand.

_The Leg and Whip._--The leg should hang straight from the knee, easy
and steady, and be near to the horse's sides; the pressure being
increased as occasion required, but the size and substance of the flap
of the saddle, in numerous cases, renders the pressure of the leg
nugatory, therefore, as the whip is the chief additional aid a lady has
to depend upon, its exact management ought to be reduced to a perfect
science. Every movement and touch of the whip must be made for purpose
and effect; it can be used on both sides of the horse, as the case may
require; the lady will have no difficulty in using it, on the right, or
off side of the horse: but to use the whip on the near side requires
caution and address.

To strike the near forehand; the lady should raise the whip gently to an
upright position, holding it with a firm grasp, she should then let the
whip suddenly descend along the shoulder, and instantly remove it: she
should be careful not to strike the horse on any part of the head except
in cases of vice. To strike the near hind quarters, the lady must pass
her right hand gently behind her waist, as far as the arm will reach,
without distorting the body; and holding the whip between the two first
fingers and thumb, strike the horse. This position is most excellent
practice, by compelling the pupil to draw in her waist to its proper
place: and until a lady can perform it easily, without disturbing the
position and action of her bridle hand, she will fail in attaining a
graceful and elegant carriage. The whip on the one side, pressed to the
horse's side, corresponds with the leg on the other, but except in
moving straight-forward, they should not be applied opposite to each
other; that the pressure of one, may not counteract the effect of the
other; thus the one intended to communicate a forward impulse, should be
applied further forward, to keep the horse up to hand, than that, which
communicates an impulse to the horse to step side ways, which should be
applied behind the girth.

The rider must always bear in mind, that every movement of the bridle,
the leg, and of the whip, is felt, and responded to, by the
sensitiveness of the horse; when she errs, the horse goes wrong, it is
therefore indispensable that they should act in conjunction.


GUIDING.

The horse, previous to moving forward, should be made to collect
himself, to arch his neck, and to stand evenly upon both his hind legs,
for thereupon depends the balance of the horse's body, his lightness in
hand, and proper carriage.

_To advance._--The lady should call the attention of the horse, by an
increased bearing upon the reins, and at the same time should animate
him, by closing the leg, and using the whip gently on the right flank;
having communicated a sufficient impulse to the horse, to carry him
forward, she should at the same moment, by turning up the back of her
hand, ease the pressure upon the reins, and prevent him to move forward:
but she should not slacken the reins, because by doing so, the horse's
head and neck may relapse into a position, which the hand cannot
control.

To turn the horse, Colonel GREENWOOD in his book of "Hints on
Horsemanship" observes, "When you wish to turn to the right, pull the
right rein stronger than the left; this is common sense--the common
error is, when you wish to turn to the right, to pass the hand to the
right, by which the right rein is slackened, and the left rein
tightened, across the horse's neck; and the horse is required to turn to
the right, when the left rein is pulled."

_To turn to the right._--The hand, holding the reins the proper length,
and having a correct appui or feeling of the horse's mouth, must not be
moved from its position, in a line with the crest; but the tightening of
the rein, must be effected, by turning the wrist; the little finger,
with the first joint pressing against the rein, is raised, and turned
towards the right shoulder; thus giving a double feeling, or pressure
upon the right rein, and turning the horse's head in the desired
direction, the pressure of the left rein against the neck, which
follows, induces the horse to turn to the right. Or the right hand may
be placed upon the right rein, to tighten it. The pressure with the left
leg, should at the same time be increased, to prevent the horse from
throwing his hind quarters too much outwards, or to the left. The
rider's body should incline inwards, and face the direction turning to.
If the whip be used, it should be applied upon the left shoulder, with a
continued pressure, till the turn has been completed.

_To turn to the left._--The lady should increase the bearing upon the
left rein, by turning the back of her hand downwards, so as to bring the
little finger towards the left shoulder; at the same time, she should
apply the whip to the horse's right flank, to make him collect himself,
and to prevent him, from throwing his hind-quarters too much to the
right; when the horse has completed the turn, the bearing and pressure
should be equalized, to induce the horse to move straight forward.

The horse, when at a stop, may be made to turn quite round by making him
move his hind-quarters only.

_To circle the horse to the right, on his fore-hand._--The lady should
apply her leg, to the horse's side, as far back as she can; to induce
him to step to the right, with his hind legs; at the same time, she must
increase the bearing upon the left rein; if the horse does not readily
obey the pressure of the foot, she may pass her hand behind her waist,
and touch the horse with the whip gently on his left flank.

_To circle the horse to the left, on the forehand._--The lady should
apply the whip gently to the horse's right flank, to induce him to step
to the left, she should have a double bearing upon the right rein, and
she should at the same time press her foot against the horse's side, as
far forward as she can, to oppose the movement of the fore-legs.

The horse can be made to turn on his hind legs, by the movement only of
his fore-hand. The lady _to turn the horse to the right_, must apply her
leg as far back as possible, to keep the horse's haunches steady; at the
same time, she should with the bit, bend the horse's head a little to
the right, to induce him to step with his fore-feet to the right. If
necessary, the whip may be used, by gentle touches upon the left
shoulder.

_To turn on the haunches to the left._--The lady must press her whip on
the horse's right flank, and her leg, against his side as far forward as
possible, at the same time, she should communicate an impulse to the
horse, to step to the left, to turn the horse quite round when in
movement; the lady should first bring her horse to a momentary stop, and
then proceed to turn him.

_To stop._--The lady must close her leg smartly to the horse's side, to
make him bring his haunches under him; at the same instant she must
increase the bearing upon the reins, gradually yet firmly, by turning
the back of her bridle hand downwards, and drawing it back, and upwards;
the body should also be thrown backwards, to give weight to the pull: as
soon as the horse has obeyed the check and remains still, the lady
should ease the bearing upon the reins. If the lady does not give an
impulse to the horse, by the pressure of her leg to his side, to bring
his haunches under him, but merely pulls the bridle, the horse might be
stopped by strength of arm, but it would be entirely on his fore-hand;
and she would be thrown up and down in her saddle, in a very helpless
way.

The stop should not be made too suddenly.

_Reining back._--The great use of reining back, is to render the horse
obedient, and tractable. The lady should first make her horse collect
himself, when well balanced, she should communicate an impulse to the
horse, by the pressure of her leg and whip to his sides, to induce him
to raise one of his hind feet, at the moment of his doing so, she should
double the feeling upon both reins, by drawing her hand back, and
turning her little finger up towards her chest; the horse, to recover
his balance, will step back. The movement of the hand must be repeated,
at each step of the horse; should the horse bring his haunches too much
under him, the bearing upon the reins must be eased, and the pressure of
the leg and whip, increased, to give him a forward impulse.

The horse must not be allowed to hurry, or run back out of hand, nor to
diverge from the straight line; he should be guided, by an increased
pressure of either rein, as may be necessary, and by an additional
pressure with the leg, or whip, to keep his hind-quarters in the desired
direction.

_Reining in._--The object desired is, to make the horse assume a more
correct balance. The lady should shorten her reins a little, by drawing
them through her left hand, thus keeping the bit-hand low and steady,
with an extra bearing upon the reins; she should with her right hand,
play with the snaffle rein, and at the same time, communicate to the
horse a forward impulse; the horse feeling the bit to be an
insurmountable obstacle, will, in place of throwing his weight forward,
bring his haunches under him. Should the urging indication be applied
too abruptly, the horse may throw so much weight forward, as to pull the
reins out of the rider's hands; if used judiciously, and controlled by
the hand, the horse will collect himself, arch his neck, champ the bit,
and be ready for any movement.

This practice gives the horse confidence, for most young horses are
afraid of the bit; and if frightened by too sudden a jerk upon the reins
will never after, go kindly up to hand. The lady having learnt the
indications necessary, to induce the horse to move either, his fore-hand
round his haunches, or his croup round his fore-hand; may next proceed
to apply them, so as to induce the horse to move diagonally, or
sideways.

_Shoulder in._--In this movement the horse's body is bent more or less.
The pupil should separate her reins, and take one in each hand, holding
them rather short; if the horse is to move to the left, her right hand
must be drawn back to her hip, to bend the horse's head to the right,
her left hand should be advanced to guide the horse, she must apply her
whip by light touches to the horse's right side, in line with the
girths, to induce him to step diagonally.

_Passaging._--Signifies moving side ways.--If the retaining and urging
indications be given with equal force, but the right rein be felt the
stronger, the horse will incline to the right; to induce him to move his
hind quarters also in that direction, the urging indication upon the
left flank must be increased, by the rider applying her leg to the
horse's side, as far back as she can, if necessary, she may pass her
whip behind her waist, and touch the horse with it, on his left flank.

In passaging to the left, the whip should be used by gentle touches, on
the horse's right shoulder, or flank as may be necessary.

The rider should lean to the side, the horse is moving to.


ANIMATIONS.

_Animations_ are intended to produce greater speed, or to render the
horse more lively, and on the alert, without increasing his pace; some
horses scarcely ever require animations, while others are so dull, and
deficient in mettle, as to call them frequently into use. The slightest
movement of the body, the hand, or the leg, is enough to rouse the well
bred, and thoroughly trained animal; but it is necessary with sluggish
horses, that the animations, to be so spirited and united, as almost to
become corrections: in fact, what is mere animation to the one horse,
would be a positive correction to another.

Animations should be used in all cases, when the horse, contrary to the
rider's inclination, either decreases his speed, droops his head, bears
heavily and languidly upon the bit, or begins to be lazy and slovenly in
the performance of his pace. A good rider foresees the necessity for an
animation, before the horse actually abates his speed, or loses the
_ensemble_ of his action, and the grace and spirit of his deportment.

It is much easier to maintain, than to restore a horse's animation;
therefore, the whip, the hand, the leg, or the voice, should do its
office a few moments before, rather than at a time, when doing so has
become indispensable. A slight motion of the fingers of the bridle hand,
serves as an excellent animation; it reminds the horse of his duty,
awakens the sensibility of his mouth, and preserves a proper
correspondence between that, and the hand. When it is necessary to
recur to animation frequently, they ought to be varied; even the whip,
if it be often used, unless with different degrees of force, will lose
its effect.


SOOTHINGS.

We should endeavor, as Xenophon observes, "to make ourself to our horse,
the organ of pleasure, and that he should associate with our presence,
the idea of the absence of pain." Horses are by degrees made obedient,
through the hope of recompense, as well as the fear of punishment; to
use these two incentives with judgment, is a very difficult matter,
requiring much thought, much practice and good temper; mere force, and
want of skill, and coolness, tend to confirm vice and restiveness. The
voice, the leg and the whole body, may be employed to soothe and
encourage. High mettled or fretful horses, it is often necessary to
soothe, and timid ones to encourage. A spirited animal is frequently
impatient when first mounted, or if a horse or carriage pass him at a
quick rate; in either case, the rider should endeavor to soothe her
horse, by speaking to him in a calm gentle tone; she should keep her
whip as motionless as possible, taking even more care than usual, that
its lash do not touch his flank, her seat should be easy, her leg
still, and her bridle hand steady. The perfection of soothing consists
in the rider sitting so still, and easy, as not to add in the least, to
the horse's animation, at the same time being on her guard, so as to be
able to meet any contingency that may occur.


CORRECTIONS.

The best horse sometimes requires correction, but the sooner a lady gets
rid of a horse that she is compelled to _flog_, the better; the effect
is most unpleasant, though the éclát may be great, and such a sight
would destroy every previously formed idea of her grace and gentleness:
moderate corrections are however some times necessary, and the lady
should make no scruple of having recourse to them when absolutely
necessary, but not otherwise. The best way to correct a horse is to
dishearten him, and make him do what he would fain avoid, not so much by
force and obstinate resolution, in contesting with him openly, and
directly, when he is perfectly prepared to resist; as by a cool
opposition, and indirect means. There are different methods of attaining
the same end, and those which are the least obvious to the animal should
be adopted; a lady cannot rival him in physical strength, but she may
conquer him by ingenuity, or subdue him by a calm determined assumption
of superior power: severe flogging seldom produces good effect, and all
quarrels between a horse and his rider should be avoided; on the other
hand, too much indulgence may induce him to think that she is afraid of
him; should he do so, she will find that he will exercise every means to
convince her, that he considers himself her master, instead of
acknowledging by implicit obedience, that she is his.

When it is necessary to use the whip as a correction, it should be
applied, by giving the horse two or three smart cuts in a line with the
girths, or on the shoulder. The lady should not fret her horse, by
continually tapping him with the whip.


VICES.

The word vice, is used to signify those actions which arise from a
perverse, or mischievous disposition--those, in which the horse opposes
his own will, to that of his rider, or those in which he purposely
attempts to injure other horses, or the persons about him. A lady
certainly should not ride any horse, that is addicted to shying,
stumbling, rearing, or any other kind of vice; but she ought
nevertheless, to be prepared against their occurrence; for, however
careful, and judicious those persons, by whom her horse is selected,
may be, and however long a trial she may have had of his temper, and
merits, she cannot be sure, even with the best tempered horse, that she
may not have to exercise her skill, to save herself from danger; she
should therefore, be prepared against frailty, or accident.

When a horse resists, or suddenly becomes uneasy in his gait, instead of
punishing the animal; the bridle, saddle, girths, &c., should be
examined, to ascertain the cause, and remedy it. For want of this
necessary precaution, the poor animal is often used ill, without reason,
and being forced into despair, is in a manner obliged to act
accordingly, be his temper and inclination ever so good.

_Weakness_ frequently drives horses into being vicious, when any thing
beyond their strength is required of them: great care should therefore
be taken, to ascertain from what cause the opposition arises.

_Resistance_ in horses, is often a mark of strength and vigour, and
proceeds from high spirits, but punishment would turn it into vice; a
timorous rider, or a passionate person, would alike spoil the horse; the
former, by suffering him to have his own will, establishes bad habits,
and creates new ones; for horses find out many ways, and means of
opposing what is demanded to them; many will imperceptibly gain a
little every day on their riders; the lady must however always treat the
horse kindly, at the same time show him that she does not fear him. The
other, from want of reason, and temper, enrages the horse, and causes
him to become vicious. Horses of a bad disposition or temper, are
exceedingly subtle, and watch their opportunity; they first, as it were,
feel for their rider's firmness of seat, and her resolution, and are
sure to defend themselves upon that point, on which they expect she will
attack them; now, the object of the lady in this contest must be, to
frustrate the horse's intentions, and protect herself from injury in the
struggle.

Some horses have a vicious habit of _turning round suddenly_; instead of
endeavouring to prevent him, in which the lady would in all probability
be foiled, were she to try to do so by force; the better plan is, to
turn the horse smartly round to the side to which he is turning, until
his head has made a complete circle, and he finds to his astonishment,
that he is precisely in the place from which he started. Should he, on
the lady attempting to urge him forward, repeat the trick; she should
pull him round on the same side three or four times, and assist the hand
in doing so, by a smart aid of the whip, or the leg; while this is
doing, she must take care to preserve her balance, by an inclination of
the body, towards the centre of the circle which is described by the
horse's head in his revolution. The same plan may be pursued, when the
horse endeavors _to turn a corner contrary to the wish of his rider_;
and if he be successfully baffled three or four times, it is most
probable that he will not renew his attempts.

When a horse _refuses to advance_, and probably whipping would increase
his obstinacy, or make him rear, or bolt away in an opposite direction,
it is advisable, on the same principle, to make him walk backwards,
until he evinces a willingness to advance: should the rider not mind her
horse giving a kick or two, a couple of smart cuts over the croup, will
generally prove successful.

Should a horse _back into difficulties_; he must be turned with his head
towards the danger, and then backed off, until there be sufficient room
to handle him.

Restive horses, and even docile animals when put out of temper,
sometimes _rear up against a wall or a carriage_; an inexperienced
rider, in such a situation, would strive to pull his head _from_ the
wall, which would bring her knee in contact with it, consequently, all
further chastisement thereupon ceases; for were the rider to make her
horse plunge, her legs would be crushed against the wall, the horse
discovering the rider's weakness, and that punishment had ceased; would
turn it to her disadvantage, and on future occasions fly to the wall for
shelter. Instead of _from_ the wall. The horse's head should be pulled
_towards_ it, so as to place his eye, in place of his rider's knee,
against it. She should use her leg, and whip, to force the croup out,
when the horse can be easily backed off, and he will never go near a
wall again.

Some horses will _stand stock still_, if ladies have the patience to sit
on their backs, and keep them in the same spot for a time, it is the
most proper punishment for such an offence, and will surely cure that
mode of defence.

When a horse begins to _kick_, the rider must bear forcibly upon his
mouth, and keep his head up, at the same time, she should press her leg
to the horse's side, keeping her body well back, to save herself from
being thrown forwards. She should use as little coercion as possible,
and be careful to preserve her own temper, and her seat; should the
horse, in spite of her exertions, get his head down; she must endeavour
to give him a smart blow with her whip on his head, which will induce
him to throw it up, and thereby stop his kicking; should an opportunity
occur, she should also try to give the horse, two or three smart turns;
this may also be done with effect, as a preventative, should she detect
any incipient attempts in the animal to kick.

_Rearing_ is a bad vice, and in weak horses especially, a dangerous one.
When the horse rears, the rider must cease to bear upon the mouth, she
should lean her body well forward, towards his neck, and with her right
hand take hold of the mane, to save herself from falling off, or pulling
the horse backwards upon her; as the horse comes to the ground with his
fore-feet, not before, she should give him a few smart cuts with the
whip on his croup, to force him forward, and endeavor to pull him round
two or three times, and thus divert him from his object; the latter
course may also be adopted to prevent rearing, if the rider can foresee
the horse's intention.

If a lady have the misfortune to be mounted on a _runaway_ horse, she
may avoid evil consequences, if she can but contrive to retain her
self-possession. She must endeavor also to retain her seat at all
hazards, sitting well back and perfectly quiet, for the least symptom of
alarm on her part, will increase the terror, or determination of the
horse. She should not attempt to throw herself off the horse, except in
cases when the horse may be taking her into imminent danger; she should
separate her reins, holding the curb in her left hand, and the snaffle
in her right, and pull at each alternately; which renders the mouth
more sensitive, than a dead heavy pull upon any one bit, and the horse
consequently more obedient to the hand. Should an open space present
itself, turning a horse in a circle, will frequently bring him up in a
few seconds.

_Plunging_, is very common amongst restive horses. If the horse continue
to do so in one place, or backing; he must be urged forward; but if the
horse does it flying forward, he should be kept back, and ridden slowly
for some time.

_Starting_, often proceeds from a defect in sight, which therefore
should be carefully looked to. When a horse starts or shies, no notice
should be taken of the movement, further, than to meet him, with the
proper bearings and pressures, to compel him to move in the true
direction; should he however, be alarmed at an object, and instead of
going up to, or passing it, turn round; he should be soothed, and
brought up gently to it, caressed at every step, he advances. To attempt
to force the horse up to the object he dreads, would not only be
ridiculous and dangerous, but the punishment would add to the alarm, and
the horse would take an early opportunity to shy afresh, at the first
strange object that presented itself, and very probably he would add
another start, in anticipation of the chastisement that might be in
store for him. Thus, what was originally a failing from defect of
vision, or ebullition of spirit from over feeding, or want of proper
exercise, becomes a vice rooted, and confirmed, and of a dangerous
character. When passing an object that the horse may be alarmed at, his
head should be turned away from it, rather than towards it, a good rider
thus prevents her horse from shying, while the young and bad rider, by
the reverse treatment, of pulling a horse's head towards the object, and
whipping him up to it, makes her horse shy. The horse should never be
allowed to evade passing the object, but he should be got past in the
manner, that occasions the least alarm to, or contention with him.

When the horse starts, the rider should instantly direct her eyes to the
horse's ears, when her body will naturally take the same direction that
the horse shies to, but if her eyes be directed to what the horse shies
from, she may loose her balance, and fall.


PACES OF THE HORSE.

The _walk_ is the least raised, the slowest, and the most gentle of all
the paces; but it should be an animated quick step, and to be pleasant
to the rider, it must be true; that is, it should be conducted by a
harmonious elevation and setting down of the feet, each foot being
dropped flat on the ground, and not, as is too often the case, the toe
being placed first, and then the heel. One lady by a good seat and hand,
will cause her horse to carry his head, with his neck arched, and to
elevate and extend his limbs, the one in unison with the other; another,
by her bad hand, and seat, will bring the horse she rides, to step
short, and irregular, and so mix his trot, with his walk, as to do
little more than shuffle over the ground.

Previous to urging the horse into a walk, the lady should ascertain that
he is well in hand, and on his proper balance; then, by turning her
hand, with the little finger towards her breast, she must increase the
bearing upon the horse's mouth, to draw his attention, and at the same
instant, she must communicate to him, by closing the leg, and using the
whip gently upon the right side, a sufficient impulse to carry him
forward, easing, as he advances, the bearing upon the mouth, by the hand
resuming its proper position, but she must not slacken the reins.

In the walk, the reins should be held so that the rider have a delicate,
but distinct feeling of the horse's mouth, to cause the horse to carry
his head in a proper position, and to keep time in the beats of his
action, but not held so tightly, as to impede the measurement of his
steps, or to make him, on being slightly animated, break from a walk
into a trot.

The rider's body should be erect but pliable, neither obeying too much
the action of the horse, nor yet resisting it.

If the horse do not exert himself sufficiently, or hang on the bit, he
should be animated, by a play on the snaffle bridle; should he break
into a trot, he must be checked, but the bearing upon the reins, must
neither be so firm nor continued, as to make him stop.

_The trot_, is a more animated pace. To make the horse advance from the
walk into a trot, the horse must, with the leg and whip, be urged into
greater animation, at the same time retained, by an increased bearing
upon the reins. The lady must be careful, to retain the lightness in
hand, without counteracting the impulse necessary to the movement, when
the animal will proceed with that safety, which is natural to a horse
balanced and light in hand.

When the horse trots, the lady must preserve her balance, steadiness and
pliancy, as in the walk; the rise in the trot, is to be acquired by
practice; when the horse in his action raises the rider from her seat,
she should advance her body, and rest a considerable portion of her
weight, upon her right knee; by means of which and the bearing of her
left foot upon the stirrup, she may return to her former position,
without being jerked; but she must carefully time her movements to the
horse's action, and the closer she maintains her seat, consistently with
her own comfort the better.

The _Canter_, and _Gallop_, are paces of still higher animation; the
canter is a repetition of bounds, during which the forehand raises
first, and higher than the hind quarters; it is the most elegant and
agreeable of all the paces, when properly performed by horse and rider;
its perfection consists in its union and animation, rather than its
speed.

A horse may canter false, disunited with the fore, or disunited with the
hind legs, for instance, if a horse is cantering in a circle to the
right, leads with his near fore leg, followed by the near hind leg, he
is cantering false. If leading with the near fore leg, the off hind,
remains further back than the near one, he is said to be disunited; if
leading with the proper fore leg, the off hind remains further back than
the left, the pace must be rectified. The lady should learn to ascertain
by the motion of the horse, if his canter be false or true, and she
should acquire the means, of making him rectify his action.

A horse must not be allowed to canter with either leg leading at his own
will, but must be made to do so, at the will of the rider. When
cantering with the off fore-leg leading, the pace is more agreeable to
the lady, consequently a lady's horse should be taught to start off into
a canter, with his right leg leading. There are many opinions, as to
what are the proper indications to be given to the horse, to induce him
to lead with either particular leg, but considering that a horse when
cantering in a circle to the right, must lead with the off-fore, and
that the indications in that case are, a double bearing upon the right
rein, and an increased pressure with the leg, or whip on the left side
of the horse, these appear to be the most rational.

To start the horse into a _canter_ with the right or off-fore leg
leading. The lady having her horse properly animated, light in hand, and
well balanced, should, as in the walk, draw the horse's attention, by an
increased bearing upon both reins, but upon the right rein the stronger;
and at the same time, by a strong pressure of the leg, or heel, and by
the application of the whip to the horse's left shoulder, communicate to
him, an impulse to carry him forward. If the horse hesitates to canter,
she should pass the whip behind her waist, and strike the horse on his
near-hind-quarter; the whip must not be used on the right side of the
horse, because muscular action being retractile, doing so, would cause
him to draw back his right leg, rather than to advance it before the
left.

To start the horse into a canter, with the left leg leading, the extra
bearing must be made upon the left rein, and the horse should be touched
with the whip on the right shoulder or flank. It is an excellent lesson
to cause the horse to change the leading leg, when in the canter, so
that upon any disturbance of pace, or change of direction, the action of
the one, may be as familiar, and as easy to the rider, as the other. The
lady should sit well down in the centre of the saddle, with her body
perfectly upright, and square to the front, without stiffness or
constraint, she must continue the bearings upon the horse's mouth,
throughout the entire pace, and if the horse flags in his movements, or
does not respond to the action of the bridle-hand, then the whip must be
instantly applied. In turning a corner, or cantering in a curve, the
lady must incline her body in that direction, to preserve her balance,
and she must be careful that the bridle arm, does not acquire the bad
habit, of moving from the side of the body, and throwing the elbow
outwards.

The _gallop_, is a further increase of pace upon the full canter, but no
lady of taste ever gallops on the road, into this pace, the lady's horse
is never urged, nor permitted to break, excepting in the field. The
action being the same as that of the canter, excepting being more
extended and quicker, nothing further need be said in this place.


LEAPING.

A lady's horse must be perfectly steady, and thoroughly trained, before
she attempts to put him to a leap. Leaping is beneficial, as it tends to
confirm the seat, and enables the rider more effectually to preserve her
balance, should she ever be mounted upon an unsteady, or vicious horse.

The skill in leaping consists principally, in the rider's own acute
anticipation of the horse's spring, and in participating in his
movements, going over with him, as a part of the horse's-self; she must
not, by being late, and hanging back, have to be jerked forward by the
spring; which operating at an angle of the person, pitches the rider
over the horse's head, before the animal's fore-quarters reach the
ground.

Preparatory to the leap, the rider should take up the snaffle rein, and
slacken the curb; because the snaffle acting in the corners of the
horse's mouth, lifts up his head, and allows him more freedom, whereas
the curb-bit acting lower down in the mouth, tends to draw the head and
chin inwards, towards the breast, and restrains his power of extension.

Leaps are of two kinds, the "standing" and the "flying." In the standing
leap, or leap over a height from a standing position; the horse raises
himself on his hind feet, and springs from his hind legs, throwing
himself over the object. The flying leap, is taken from any pace, it
differs from the standing leap, principally in agility, and in the horse
being more extended in his movements.

The position of the rider is to be governed in this, as in all other
cases, by the action of the horse; no weight should be borne on the
stirrup, the right leg must press strongly the middle pommel, and the
left, be closed to the saddle. The bridle should be held so as to offer
no check to the horse's movement, but should the horse show an
unwillingness to jump, or be inclined to swerve, it is prudent to keep
him firmly in hand, until the moment of his spring, when the tension on
the reins may be lessened.

_A standing jump._--The rider must press her leg close against the
saddle, she must animate the horse to jump, by gently lifting his head;
as he raises on his haunches for the leap, she should yield the reins,
to give him ample room to extend his neck and shoulders, and to exert
himself; as his fore-quarters ascend, the lady should lean slightly
forward, keeping her head upright and steady; as he springs, she resumes
her upright position, and as he descends, she inclines her body
backwards to balance herself; urging, and at the same time restraining
the horse, to induce him to collect, and fully recover himself upon his
legs.

_The flying leap._--In the flying leap, the seat is to be preserved, as
in the standing leap, but the horse's posture being more horizontal, the
lady need not lean forward as he raises; she must approach the leap in
such a manner, as neither to hurry or flurry the horse, but so as to
allow him a full view of the place he has to go over. Holding the
horse's head with the snaffle, with a firm but delicate hand, straight
to his jump, she brings him up at an animated pace. As he springs, she
must slightly yield the reins, as he descends, she must incline her body
backwards pressing her left leg firmly to the third crutch, and looking
straight to her front, she will retain her seat and balance immoveably;
she then resumes the tension of the reins; and the moment the horse
touches the ground, she should be prepared to use her whip if necessary,
to induce the horse to collect himself, to prevent him from stumbling or
falling.


ROAD RIDING.

When persons are pursuing their business or pleasure on the road,
precise formality, and attention to the strict rules of riding, would
interrupt their enjoyment.

The rudiments of the art being once known, when on the road, no more of
it is to be applied, than will, with the greatest ease, facilitate our
designs. When nothing more is required of the horse, than to perform the
natural paces, he will walk, trot, and gallop with the greatest freedom.
The rider participates in the like ease, or unrestrained liberty, but
this ease or inattention, is not to suffer unseemly habits to take
place, such as the back and shoulders to get round, the head to shake,
the leg to dangle, and beat against the horse's side.

These errors may creep on a person, who has not been confirmed in the
principles by sufficient practice; but when habits of good riding are
once firmly established, the ease and liberty the rider assumes, will
not exceed propriety, risk her security, nor abandon, nor baffle her
horse,--her hand will keep its situation and properties, though the body
be turned to any extreme for the purpose of conversing, and the like,
nor will the body by any freedom it takes, throw itself out of balance,
nor take the liberty, when it cannot be done with safety. This freedom
and ease, so desirable and so universally admired, is affected by every
person who is in the habit of riding, but with this difference, some
possess system, with negligence, and ease, and others merely negligence
and ease, without system.

A lady's horse should be sure footed, but the best become careless. When
a horse trips, he should be kept more than usually collected. It is
useless to whip a horse after stumbling, as it is also after shying, for
it is clear, he would not run the risk of breaking his knees nor his
nose if he could help it. A bad horsewoman throws her horse down, which
a good horsewoman does not do. That is, because a bad horsewoman hurries
her horse, over bad ground, or down hill, or over loose stones, or rough
and broken ground, lets him flounder into difficulties, and when there,
pulls him so that he cannot see, nor exert himself to get out of them
and expecting chastisements, the horse springs to avoid it, before he
has recovered his feet, and goes down with a tremendous impetus; if she
have to cross a rut to the right, she probably forces her horse across
it, when the right foot is on the ground; in which case, unless the
horse collect himself, and jump; if he attempts to step across it, the
probability is, that crossing his legs, he knocks one against the other
and falls. The reverse of all this, Colonel GREENWOOD, writes, should be
the case, if the lady have not sufficient tact to feel, which of her
horse's feet is on the ground, she must allow him his own time for
crossing, which will be, when the left foot is on the ground. The rider
should habitually choose her horse's ground for him, this by practice,
will become as easy to her, as choosing her own path when walking.

It is a common error to suppose, that a rider can support a horse when
falling, lift him over a leap, or hold him up, they are mechanical
impossibilities. Were a similar weight attached to the thin rein of a
lady's bridle, could the lady lift it with her left hand. A pull from
the curb, will indeed give the horse so much pain in the mouth, that he
will throw up his head, and the rider flatters herself that she has
saved her horse from falling; but this error is not harmless, by so
doing, she prevents his seeing to foot out any unsafe ground; and
further, when an unmounted horse stumbles, nature teaches him to drop
his head and neck, which relieves the shoulders of their weight, and
that is the instant that the horse makes his effort to recover himself;
the muscular power employed to raise the head and neck, will act to sink
his knees, for as much as the rider pulls up, so much will she pull
down. The great point is, to keep the horse so well balanced and in
hand, with his legs well under him, that should the horse stumble, or
get into difficulties, he is able to recover himself without much
exertion.

_When proceeding along a road_, the rule is, to keep to the left side of
it, but when about to pass those travelling in the same direction,
though at a less speedy pace; to pass on their right. A party meeting
another passes to the right, that is, the right hands of the parties
meeting, are towards each other.

_A gentleman riding with a lady_, should be on her right side, as on
that side, if the road be dirty, he does not bespatter the lady's habit,
and on that side also, he is situated next the carriages, and various
objects they meet, or which may be passing near them.

If a lady find her horse become affected and uneasy in his gait, she
should endeavor to ascertain the cause, the probability is, there will
be found to be something wrong, in the bridle or saddle or perhaps a
stone in the horse's foot, and she should have it remedied if possible.

A lady should also habitually prevent her horse out-walking, or lagging
behind her companions, she is either very unsociable, or a bad
horsewoman, who does not keep abreast of them.

A lady, although advised to ride in general on the curb bridle, should
occasionally use both hands to the reins. It assists in obtaining a firm
seat, by giving greater power and command over the horse; it prevents
the strain on the left arm, which is the natural result of holding a
horse entirely with one hand, it makes the pressure upon the animal's
mouth more even, which is so truly essential to the comfort of both
horse and rider, it keeps the shoulders square, a very important point
in the elegance of a young lady's appearance, it causes the elbows to be
even on either side instead of one being infinitely in the rear of the
other, as is too often the case, and though last not least, it keeps the
whip quiet until its use is called for.

There is a piece of inhumanity practised, as much, perhaps more by
ladies than by gentlemen, it is, _riding a horse fast on hard ground_.
If the ground be hard and even, a collected canter may be allowed, but
one hour's gallop on hard and uneven ground, would do the soundest horse
irremediable injury, his sinews would be strained, his joints
prematurely stiffened, fever in the feet would be produced, and the
horse would be deprived at once, and for ever, of his elasticity and
action, and be brought prematurely a cripple to the grave.


DISMOUNTING.

The first operation preparatory to dismounting is, to bring the horse to
an easy yet perfect stop.

If the lady be light, and dexterous, she may dismount without
assistance.

The lady when preparing to dismount, should take the reins in her right
hand, and put the whip in her left. The reins should be held
sufficiently tight, to restrain the horse from advancing; and yet not so
firmly, as to cause him to back, rear, or swerve.

The lady should next disengage her right leg from the pommel clearing
her dress as she raises her knee; place her right hand on the near
crutch, and take her foot out of the stirrup.

If the lady be assisted, the gentleman taking her left hand in his left,
places his right hand under her left elbow, which she keeps firm to her
side; as she springs, he supports her in her descent, she retains hold
of the crutch or of the hunting pommel; as she quits the saddle, she
turns to face the gentleman, who stands near the horse's shoulder, and
alights on the ground on the balls of her feet.

If the lady dismount without assistance, after clearing her foot from
the stirrup, she places her right hand on the near crutch, and her left
upon the third crutch or hunting pommel, she must spring clear from the
saddle facing towards the horse's side as she descends. By whatever mode
the lady dismount, she should, to prevent an unpleasant shock on
reaching the ground bend her knees, suffer her body to be perfectly
pliant, and alight upon the balls of her feet; she is not to relinquish
her hold, nor the gentleman to withdraw his support, until she be
perfectly safe on the ground.


CONCLUDING REMARKS.

Riding for recreation, and riding for improvement, are distinct things,
yet both are necessary. Many persons unacquainted with the principles of
"Horsemanship," can perceive no other excellence, than riding boldly,
and riding fast, and some even assert, that a horse broken by a riding
master, has been spoiled; this idea is easily accounted for, as the
better a horse is broken or educated, the more unsuited he is for an
awkward rider.

There are many, it is true, who have been in the habit of riding from
their infancy, who, although they never have had any instructions, ride
hunting, or on a straight road admirably well; but many more affect to
ride as well, who commit the greatest absurdities.

Though the ordinary modes of riding may gratify, and convey one on a
horse's back, wherever the will directs, yet, from want of knowledge of
the true principles of riding, one is continually exposed to innumerable
hazards.

Most persons are desirous to ride well, though not in a _manége_ style.
To ride well, a lady must be perfectly at her ease, with a hand capable
of managing her horse, with facility to herself, and comfort to her
animal. These requirements will be sooner attained, by a few proper
lessons, with study and application, than by years of riding without
them.

To conclude, a lady on horseback cannot look too quiet; she should
appear perfectly at her ease, and in perfect temper with her horse; in
short whether natural, or acquired, she should seem, "born with a sweet
temper, a light hand, and a good seat."




Transcriber's Note


The following typographical errors were corrected:

  Page  Error
  10   hand is them changed to hand is then
  26   by implict changed to by implicit
  28   all probabilty changed to all probability
  32   should he soothed changed to should be soothed
  32   carressed changed to caressed
  37   applicacation changed to application
  38   perpectly changed to perfectly
  39   to a leap, changed to to a leap.
  39   rider's own accute changed to rider's own acute
  39   of the horses changed to of the horse's

The following words were inconsistently spelled.

  fore-hand / forehand
  head-stalls / headstalls





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Lady and Her Horse, by T. A. Jenkins

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LADY AND HER HORSE ***

***** This file should be named 37445-8.txt or 37445-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/7/4/4/37445/

Produced by Julia Miller and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
